Project Title: Online Sales Analysis
This project focuses on analyzing the sales of a Synthetic Online shop providing insights into key areas around sales performance, customer behavior, product trends, and growth areas.

Project Execution:
I began by extracting data from Kaggle and used SQL for Data Querying, Data Manipulations, Data Cleaning and transformation to ensure accuracy and reliability for effective analysis. This process involved:

Removing irrelevant columns and rows that did not contribute to the insights I aimed to derive.

Handling missing or null values.

Formatting and transforming data.

Data Visualization:
To tell a compelling data-driven story and aid stakeholders in making informed decisions, I used Power BI to create insightful visualizations:

A pie chart was used to illustrate the revenue distribution by gender including unspecified entries (Not stated) and revenue generated by product category.

A stacked bar chart was used to showcase the top 10 best-selling products based on quantity sold.

A treemap also captured hierarchical data and the proportion of sales across categories.

And a summary table was used to present average sales and total revenue per category for easy comparison.

Future Exploration:
Looking ahead, I plan to analyze seasonal trends using the time series nature of the order_date. Dive into customer segmentation and explore preferred payment methods.

 

Tools Used:
MySQL (Data Cleaning & Preparation,)
Microsoft Power BI (Visualization & Dashboard Development)


